feat: User Registry blog post (#126)
gnolang/blog: posts/2025-03-12_user-registry/README.md

---
publication_date: 2025-03-12T00:00:00Z
slug: user-registry
tags: [gnoland, usernames, dapps]
authors: [leohhhn]
---

> # The Revamped gno.land User Registry

Reviewer: I think the call to action of the article should be more about having people try out registering their username on gno.land and then highlight the improvements made. 

New Updates to the Username Registry: Test Out Registering Your Unique Username and Namespace.

The user registration system has been around since the early days of gno.land, 
serving as one of the foundational components of the chain. It allows users to 
register custom names for their addresses and claim matching namespaces where 

> they can deploy Gno packages.

Reviewer: custom names linked to their Gno addresses and claim matching namespaces for their Gno package deployments

> 

Reviewer: Why the Username Registry required a revamp

Author: Maybe it's not 100% clear but i did add this:

> With changes to the Gno language, chain infrastructure, as well as the addition
of governance and other new functionality, the user registry was due for a major
refactor. This new version introduces a set of realms that integrate directly 
with the core of the gno.land blockchain, providing similar but more flexible
functionality and upgradeability through GovDAO proposals.

`r/sys/users` provides functions to resolve both usernames and addresses:

```go
// ResolveName returns the latest UserData of a specific user by name or alias
func ResolveName(name string) (data *UserData, isCurrent bool) {...}

// ResolveAddress returns the latest UserData of a specific user by address
func ResolveAddress(addr std.Address) *UserData {...}
```

See how to use these functions in a practical example [here](/r/docs/users), and 
check out the source code [here](/r/sys/users$source&file=users.gno).

### r/gnoland/users/v1

The first iteration of the gno.land user registry allows users to register a
name following a specific pattern - starts with three letters, ends with three
numbers, and is not longer than 20 characters. The registration costs 1 GNOT
and the fee is modifiable via a GovDAO proposal.

This is the user-facing realm where users interact with the registry. It 
provides an interface for registering usernames while enforcing certain constraints:

- Usernames must start with three letters.
- They must end with three numbers.
- The total length must not exceed 20 characters.
- Only `_` is allowed as a special character.

> - The registration fee is 1 GNOT (modifiable via GovDAO proposals).

Reviewer 2: You could maybe add a note somewhere about the need to add the `⁠send` flag when using `gnokey` to pay the registration fees? Since it's an unusual operation and the Realm help page omits the flag, it might be useful for those who will read the article.

Author: Added a CTA and a clear note to set the right GNOT amount

---
publication_date: 2025-03-12T00:00:00Z
slug: user-registry
tags: [gnoland, usernames, namespaces, dapps]
authors: [leohhhn]
---

> # The New gno.land User Registry System

Reviewer: Introducing the New gno.land Username Registry

The user registration system has been around since the early days of gno.land, 
serving as one of the foundational components of the chain. It allows users to 
register custom names linked to their Gno addresses and claim matching namespaces 
for their Gno package deployments.

While the username registration system existed as far back as April 2022 ([`r/demo/users`](https://github.com/gnolang/gno/commit/914f267dd31c0382a472b5fcf98fcfc53129a32d))
the namespace permission deployment went into effect with Test4 for the first time
in July 2024.

With changes to the Gno language, chain infrastructure, as well as the addition
of governance and other new functionality, the user registry was due for a major
refactor. This new version introduces a set of realms that integrate directly 
with the core of the gno.land blockchain, providing similar but more flexible
functionality and upgradeability through GovDAO proposals.

## Register your gno.land username now!

We invite you to register your gno.land username with the new User Registry on

> the Portal Loop network.

Author: I woudn't rename it until the migration is complete, as this will cause confusion with users

Here's how to register in a few steps:
- Create a Gno address with `gnokey` or a third-party wallet such as Adena

> - Fetch Portal Loop GNOT from the [Faucet Hub](https://faucet.gno.land)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fetch Staging GNOT from the [Faucet Hub](https://faucet.gno.land)
```

Author: See comment below

to send a transaction via the web. 
  - Under advanced options, make sure to set the "send" amount to `1000000ugnot` 
  to pay for the registration fee.
- If you're using `gnokey`, click on "Register" to get a pre-built `gnokey` command
  - Make sure to also set `-send "1000000ugnot"` to pay for the registration fee
- Enter your desired username which follows the naming rules outlined in the 
User Registry realm.
- Call the function and see your name show up in the "Latest registrations" section!

> Make sure to specify exact amount of GNOT for the registration fee (1 GNOT).

## System Architecture

For developers that are looking to use the new User Registry system in their 
realms, below is an outline of the main components of the system including a 
practical example found under `r/docs`. 

The new user registration system, paired with the namespace system, enables
custom usernames and namespace permission checking upon package deployment. It
consists of three key realms:

- [`r/sys/users`](/r/sys/users) - Core logic of the system, handling storage and resolution.

> - [`r/gnolang/users/v1`](/r/gnoland/users/v1) - The user-facing application where users register names.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [`r/gnolang/users/v1`](/r/gnoland/users/v1) - The user-facing controller where users register names.
```

? up to you

Author: App seems more user-friendly :)
